EisE 后 狂 二 加 只 Re 44 工 程 数学 学报 第 20 卷 人 全 和 参考 文献 : [1] 姜 启 源 . 数学 模型 [M]. 北京 :高 等 教育 出 版 社 ,1993 [2] 赵 达 网 , 朱 迎 善 . 应 用 随机 过 程 [M]. 北京 :机械 工 业 出 版 社 ,1993 [3] 闻 新 等 .Matlab 神经 网 络 应 用 设计 [M] , 北京 :科学 出 版 社 ,2000 [4] Shi Yaolin. Stochastic dynamic model of SARS spreading[j] .www science.com,2003;9 The Study of the Spread of SARS 多 > P =VNN XIAO Hongjiang， WU Tong， LI Mingke _ \ Advisor: HE Zu-guo = (Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications , Beiji Abstract: This article compares the model in the attachment 1,and cxapis its/methcd called "Had- Imitation ~ Circulation - Calculation” . The advantage of the mode! is itsease ,ts high fiteciticn in che aspect of imitation, and its reasonable change of the value of "K” .At :he same time, wEgin u Shat ie main drawback is tht i de pends on the data excessivciy and is nol able to predict :he sifbation for longer time. In the second question, we bring up four :nodels whicn are Lased cn four different core metheds: ( I)the model based on differential and dif- ference cquation; (2) :he controling - model based on filter; (3) theumodel of neural network; (4)the simulation model hased on Branching Process. In Model 2 ,we conclude that SARS will last 99 days in Beijingithe earlier it is controlled the better if will becomesand SARS wil no break out preodically. In the third question, we are en- lighted by the "consequense function’ in spqnomjcs, 吕 we bring in three different influential functions to draw ou "an influential model of the foreign wsidy, en we draw a conclusion that the city of Beijing will lose 1,382, 110 foreign visitors due to SARS.Finaly yy 有 a short composition to be printed on the local newspapers. Keywords: filter; neural network; branching proce { 上 接 28 页 ) j Mode 由 SARS Epidemic Considering Self-cure 2 LI Bei, XU Haixuan, GUO Jiajia 罗 ( Dalian University of Technology, Dalian 116024，China ) sw a SELuliR (susceptible，exposed，unisolated infectious，isolated infectious, recovered) na 1 with self-cure is built to model the SARS cpidemic. The problem is solved with two methods: one is ordi- 1 lfieséntial cquation which we then come to a conclusion that self-cure indecd exists in the SARS transmis- 除 the other is computer simulation based on the small-work network which we also absorb the basic ideas of the Sznajd and the cellular automation model，and then we discuss some parameters and the effects of vaccina- tion. At last we analyze the epidemic situation in Beijing and estimate the results if control measures are taken 5 days later or calier. Keywords: SARS; Sclf-cure; ordinary differential equation; Small-World Network; the Sznajd model; the cellu- lar automation model; simulation 1 1