工

100

程

数

学

学

报

第 19 卷

of buses ”
file in and out ”
during aperation period while we have mainly doue t he research on t he uneven variation of t he passenger
flow in time and space ,t he research on t he laws of how to dispatch buses and we have established a target planning model which has
realized t he dispatching plan of ”
some early and some late ”and when t here are more ,when t here are fewer . Under t he circum2
stances of ensuring certain banefits and t he satisfaction of passengers ,t he overall operating time of t he buses in operation has been
made t he shortest ,t he dispatching timetable has been got ,while t he number for t he least buses is 42 and t he ratio of satisfaction be2
tween passengers and bus companies is 0. 48 :0. 46
Key words :Bus Dispatching ; Passenger Flow ; Target2Planning

流

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

交

( 上接 94 页)

FU Chang2jian
Advisor :

研

Optimization of Dispatching Buses
Yang Cai2xia

Qin Min

CHEN Jin2min

：
科

( SiChuan University , Chengdu 610064)

Abstract :It is to find out t he best way to dispatch buses. We set a optimized model whose target function is t he profit of bus com2
pany. At t he same time , it guarantee t he proportion t hat t he passengers waiting for t heir buses more t han 10 min (or 5 min) in t he
total is less t hanα given before. First , every station’
s nonparameter distribution function about t he number of passengers is fitted by
met hod of least squares. We use a simple met hod to estimate t hat at least 43 buses are needed , and t hen , we use Maple to get t he

号

optimal solution refer to it . It shows t he best plans for dispatching buses in different conditions of t he number of passengers. It can
help bus companny to get t he top profit , meanwhile t he passengers may not wait for t heir bus for a long time. In t he end , we evalu2
ate and popularize t he model , and point out t he effective way to improve it .

微

信

公
众

Key words : dispatching buses ; optimized model ; mat hod of least squares

