工

28

6

程

数

学

学

报

第 19 卷

模型的推广

如果考虑中轴线与切片的交点不止一个 ,比如有两个交点 ,仍然可以利用我们的离散模型
去求解 ,因为不含轴心的切片中一定不含有最大圆 。
我们对于离散问题讨论较多 ,但对于轴心坐标及半径是实数的情况 ,没有过多的涉及 。问
题本身是连续的 ,用离散方法去模拟 ,不可避免地会出现误差 。如果知道象素圆的生成算法 ,
我们就可以运用本模型的思想 ,将模型推广到实数领域 ,从而使模型的精度提高 。

管伟光 . 体视化技术及其应用 [ M ] . 北京 : 电子工业出版社 ,1998

[2]

孙家广 ,扬长贵 . 计算机图形学 [ M ] . 北京 : 清华大学出版社 ,1995

[3]

Kennet h. R. Castleman. 数字图象处理 [ M ] . 北京 : 电子工业出版社 ,1981

交

[1]

流

参考文献 :

L IAO Wu2peng ,

DEN G J un2ye ,

WAN G Dan

Mat hematical Modeling Tutor Group

：
科

Advisor :

研

3D Reconstruction of Pipel ine Sl ice

( Hohai University , Nanjing 210098 )
Abstract : This article proves t hat t here exists t he biggest circle on each slice , whose center is on t he pipeline center curve. By con2
structing t he continuous model and t he discrete one , we are able to determine t he biggest circle on 0. bmp slice , of which radius is
30 and center coordinate is (0 ,160) . Using t he predetermined condition t hat t he biggest circle should be contained in each slice , we

号

find out all possible coordinates of t he pipeline center curve on corresponding slices. For each slice , basing on t he principle t hat a
slice which lies on over 29～under 29 layers of t he slice must contain a corresponding section of t he sphere of radius 30 , we filtrate
t he coordinates of t he pipeline center curve and determine t he more precise one. However , t here are still some coordinates of t he

公
众

pipeline center curve left to be filtrated , such as slices from 71 to 99 , due to t he information is not enough. Furt her , we use t he
pointed end property to determine t he coordinates of t he pipeline center curve on ot her slices. The projecting figures on each coordi2
nate plane are smoot h and fluent . In t he end , by using t he coordinates to reconstruct all t he slices and comparing t he slices wit h t he
original ones , we found t hat t he error of different pixels is less t han 3 %. The result is satisfied.

微

信

Key words : continuous model ; discrete model ; pointed end property

